ADVANCED PROGRAMMING. MINIPROJECT 1. Testing & Laziness.
Andrzej Wąsowski 2015

Read the entire task description before starting to work.

The task consists of two parts.  First, preparing a single Scala file to be
handed in. Second, writing maximum  200 words to answer a reflection question
(to be placed in the same scala file, in a comment in the bottom of the file).



PART I. Testing (80%)

1. Implement a test suite, for a subset of the implementation of lazy streams.
In particular tests functions: headOption, take, drop, map and append. Testing
other functions will not be graded, although it might help you catch some bugs.

2. Use a mixture of scenario tests and property tests as you see fit.

3. The file StreamSpecWasowski.scala contains an example of a such a mixed test
suite, exploiting ScalaTest's ability to include property testing in ScalaCheck.
Examine this file before starting to work.

The tests are run by issuing "sbt test" (or "sbt ~test") in the directory
containing this README file.

The test file contains two example properties. For each of the properties the
main source directory (src/main/scala/fpinscala/laziness) contains a witness
implementation violating the property (a buggy implementation).

The file stream00/Stream.scala contains the book implementation of lazy
Streams.  This should pass all our tests.

The file stream01/Stream.scala contains an example that violates property 01.
The file stream02/Stream.scala contains an example that violates property 02.
Both of these files should fail a test. Try to run these tests and check!

To switch the file you are testing, uncomment a suitable import in the top of
the StreamSpecWasowski file.  Note that if you comment out all inputs, you are
testing the standard library's implementation of Streams.

The build.sbt file already is already set up for linking ScalaTest and
ScalaCheck's into your program.  If you keep the same setup your testing
environment will be very similar to my grading environment, which will decrease
chances of incompatibilities.



4. What properties to test?

For headOption:
- it should return None on an empty stream;  (already included in the examples)
- it should return some for a non-empty stream;  (already included in the examples)
- headOption should not force the tail of the stream.

For take:
- take should not force any heads nor any tails of the Stream it manipulates
- take(n) does not force (n+1)st head ever (even if we force all elements of take(n))
- s.take(n).take(n) == s.take(n) for any Stream s and any n (idempotency)

For drop:
- s.drop(n).drop(m) == s.drop(n+m) for any n, m (additivity)
- s.drop(n) does not force any of the dropped elements heads
- the above should hold even if we force some stuff in the tail

For map:
- x.map(id) == x (where id is the identity function)
- map terminates on infinite streams

For append:
- propose properties yourself

I will test the effectiveness of your spec, by providing several broken and
correct implementations for the above functions and measuring your success
rate.  The results of my testing will be translated to a grade.


4. How to prepare your handin file?

Create your own spec file by renaming the file and the test class, so that it
is suffixed with your ITU email account names.  The test must be in a single
file StreamSpecUsername1Username2.scala and contain a single class
fpinscala.laziness.StreamSpecUsername1Username2. For instance:
fpinscala.laziness.StreamSpecWasowskiSestoft

The tested class must be in fpinscala.laziness package, otherwise the
test will fail to compile and your solution will not be accepted.

The test spec should assume that the type Stream and members of its companion
object are available in scope. So do not navigate to packages explicitly to
access them. I will manipulate your file, by changing the imported
implementation of Streams, so the only access to the implementation must be
through the imports on top of the file (like in the example).

You should write both scenario tests and property tests.

It is a good idea to test on infinite streams, and probably a good idea to
provide your own stream generator, but technically speaking it is possible
without such a generator, just inconvenient. Your test suite should work on
stream00.Stream and fail on stream01.Stream as shown here (of course not
simultaneously, but with exactly one of the imports uncommented).

It is fine if a test just lets an exception be thrown without interception (in
the failing case).

You are only handing in the spec file You are not handing any implementations
that you are using for testing (I will provide my own for grading).

Please keep your files 80 characters wide, not wider.

Only one text file, with .scala extension will be accepted.  No .zip files, no
pdfs.



Part II. Reflection (20%)

Write maximum 200 words ('wc -w' command standards), answering the following
question:  when do you find useful to use a fixture based scenario test? and
when do you find generator-driven property tests more useful?

Place the answer in a comment, in the very bottom of your Scala file (the same
one that contains the scalatest spec).
